---
id: 104
title: Fantasy Baseball 2009 Love/Hate List
date: 2009-03-27T08:19:09+00:00
author: Matt B.
layout: post
guid: https://backseatfan.com/?p=104
permalink: /2009/03/2009baseballlovehate/
DiggUrl:
  - https://digg.com/baseball/2009_Fantasy_Baseball_Love_Hate_List
categories:
  - Fantasy Baseball
  - MLB
---

<div class="entry">
  <p>
    Two rules to live by:<br /> Don't reach for a catcher. In a 10 team league that means there will probably be 10-15 catchers owned, meaning there are still 15 other catchers you can draft.<br /> Don't pay for saves – 1/3 of closers last year lost their jobs at some point last year. I wouldn't take a closer in the first ten rounds
  </p>

  <p>
    Players I love<br /> Carl Crawford – Coming off his worst season as a pro he'll be motivated this year to bounce back<br /> Miguel Cabrera – Career highs in HR and RBIs last year although his average was down, his average will bounce back this year and he'll finish as a top 3 player<br /> BJ Upton – He's only going to miss a week at most and after his great postseason last year he should have a career year in 2009<br /> John Smoltz – A lot of upside and not a lot of risk, I wouldn't take him until the last round though<br /> Matt Holliday – Currently going around 30th overall, he will be a top 20 player this year, the A's run it more than people think and he should reproduce his 28 steals from last year<br /> Brian Bannister - Had one of the highest BABIPs (Batting Average - Balls in Play) in the league last year at .328 a stat that is usually around .300, this tends to average out year over year, I expect him to have a a good year<br /> Chris Carpenter – currently going in the 18th round of 10 team leagues and he has a ton of upside. He's had two years off and he should be ready for a strong 2009<br /> Ryan Braun – Currently being drafted at the 8 spot but he'll finish the year as a top 5 player<br /> Shin Soo Choo – Put up big numbers for Korea in the World Baseball Classic. Batted .343 with 11 HR and 48 RBI after the All-Star break last year<br /> Randy Johnson – Should put up 10 or 11 wins with 140 strikeouts. Perfect stats for a 5th starter<br /> Yovani Gallardo – He pitched in 3 games after his ACL tear and had an ERA under 1, he will finish as a top 15 pitcher this year<br /> Chad Billingsley – His nickname is the buzzsaw… any other questions?<br /> Randy Wolf - Going from a hitters park (Minute maid Park) to a pitchers park (Dodger Stadium) will help him a lot this year<br /> Nelson Cruz – 37 HRs last year in the minors, hit .330 in the majors when he came up late last season<br /> Kyle Davies – 4-1 2.27 ERA in his last 5 starts last year and is pitching for a very underrated Kansas City Royals team (see my season predictions later this week)<br /> Raul Ibanez - Has had 110 RBIs in a terrible Mariners line-up last year this year he'll have Jimmy Rollins, Chase Utley, and Ryan Howard in the lineup with him<br /> Ubaldo Jiminez - 8-3 3.69 75K 89 IPs after the All-Star break last year<br /> Jason Motte – Should lock down the Cardinals closer job. He's currently being drafted 210th which is undrafted in a standard 10 team league<br /> Tommy hanson – If you're in a deep league he's worth your last round pick, he's been tearing up the minors but probably won't be in the majors until at least June<br /> Orlando Hudson - Currently being draft in the 200s with Manny, Matt Kemp and Russell Martin in the line-up with him he should have a huge season<br /> JJ Putz – In a deep league he's worth a shot, if anything happens to K-Rod he's the closer in New York<br /> Elijah Dukes – He's not being drafted in most leagues and is worth a spot on your bench. He's got 20-20 potential and could put up 90 RBIs this year<br /> Javier Vazquez - See Bannister, Brian<br /> Aaron Harang - Had one of the higher HR to Fly Ball (HR/FB) ratios in the league last year, which explains his terrible record, he should bounce back and be a solid 4th fantasy starter this year<br /> Brian Fuentes - See Wolf, Randy
  </p>

  <p>
    Players I hate<br /> Francisco Rodriquez – Probably the most overrated player in fantasy this year. If he blows a save or two JJ Putz will be there to take his spot. The average number of saves after a 50 save season is 35. I think K-Rod will finish with less than 35 saves, plus like I said earlier, don't pay for saves.<br /> Derek Jeter – He's being drafted as the 4th overall shortstop and I don't think he'll finish in the top 8. Just because you're a good real life player doesn't mean you're a good fantasy player<br /> Rich Harden – One of the best… when he's on the field…. He's averaging 17 starts a year over his first 5 seasons<br /> Hanley Ramirez – If he gets moved to the 3 hole his batting average is 30 points lower than his .320 career average<br /> Mark Teixeira – Cody Ransom protecting him in the lineup for the first two months? The pressures of playing for the New York Yankees? He's traditionally a second half player and by the time he heats up it may be too late<br /> Vladimir Guerrero – Currently being drafted high based on his name recognition his numbers are nearly identical to Brad Hawpe's who's going 10 rounds later<br /> Alexei Ramirez – The 2nd most overhyped player this year next to K-Rod<br /> Alfonso Soriano - If he stays healthy then he's a good pick but I don't see how an injury prone player like him plays the full season<br /> Todd Wellemeyer - Don't get cute, one of the lowest BABIPs last year and that will rise this year<br /> Derek Lowe - Going from one of the most pitcher friendly parks (Dodger Stadium) to one that favors hitters (Turner Field)<br /> Ryan Dempster - See Wellemeyer, Todd<br /> Daisuke Matsuzaka - Had one of the lowest HR/FB ratios in the league last year, plus he rarely made it out of the 5th inning. He's a player based on name recognition, which means he's going too early for what he's worth<br /> Joe Mauer - He's a top 3 catcher when healthy and he's being drafted as so this year, but he's NOT healthy. He's not going to be playing the whole season. Save your catcher pick utnil late<br /> Ian Kinsler - He's a borderline top 20 player when he's healthy but he couldn't stay healhty last year and I don't see how this year will be any different
  </p>
</div>
